docs/clustering.md, before:

# Clustering

## Basic Example

Connecting to a cluster is a bit different. Create the client by specifying some (or all) of the nodes in your cluster and then use it like a regular client instance:

```typescript
import { createCluster } from 'redis';

(async () => {
  const cluster = createCluster({
    rootNodes: [
      {
        url: 'redis://10.0.0.1:30001'
      },
      {
        url: 'redis://10.0.0.2:30002'
      }
    ]
  });

  cluster.on('error', (err) => console.log('Redis Cluster Error', err));

  await cluster.connect();

  await cluster.set('key', 'value');
  const value = await cluster.get('key');
})();
```

## `createCluster` configuration

> See the [client configuration](./client-configuration.md) page for the `rootNodes` and `defaults` configuration schemas.

| Property               | Default | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|------------------------|---------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| rootNodes              |         | An array of root nodes that are part of the cluster, which will be used to get the cluster topology. Each element in the array is a client configuration object. There is no need to specify every node in the cluster, 3 should be enough to reliably connect and obtain the cluster configuration from the server |
| defaults               |         | The default configuration values for every client in the cluster.  Use this for example when specifying an ACL user to connect with                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| useReplicas            | `false` | When `true`, distribute load by executing readonly commands (such as `GET`, `GEOSEARCH`, etc.) across all cluster nodes. When `false`, only use master nodes                                                                                                                                                        |
| maxCommandRedirections | `16`    | The maximum number of times a command will be redirected due to `MOVED` or `ASK` errors                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| modules                |         | Object defining which [Redis Modules](../README.md#modules) to include                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| scripts                |         | Object defining Lua Scripts to use with this client (see [Lua Scripts](../README.md#lua-scripts))                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

## Command Routing

### Commands that operate on Redis Keys

Commands such as `GET`, `SET`, etc. will be routed by the first key, for instance `MGET 1 2 3` will be routed by the key `1`.

### [Server Commands](https://redis.io/commands#server)

Admin commands such as `MEMORY STATS`, `FLUSHALL`, etc. are not attached to the cluster, and should be executed on a specific node using `.getSlot()` or `.getAllMasters()`.

### "Forwarded Commands"

Some commands (e.g. `PUBLISH`) are forwarded to other cluster nodes by the Redis server. The client will send these commands to a random node in order to spread the load across the cluster.

Commit message:

add `nodeAddressMap` config for cluster (#1827)
* add `nodeAddressMap` config for cluster

* Update cluster-slots.ts

* Update cluster-slots.ts

* update docs

Co-authored-by: Guy Royse <guy@guyroyse.com>

Co-authored-by: Guy Royse <guy@guyroyse.com>

docs/clustering.md, after:

# Clustering

## Basic Example

Connecting to a cluster is a bit different. Create the client by specifying some (or all) of the nodes in your cluster and then use it like a regular client instance:

```typescript
import { createCluster } from 'redis';

(async () => {
  const cluster = createCluster({
    rootNodes: [
      {
        url: 'redis://10.0.0.1:30001'
      },
      {
        url: 'redis://10.0.0.2:30002'
      }
    ]
  });

  cluster.on('error', (err) => console.log('Redis Cluster Error', err));

  await cluster.connect();

  await cluster.set('key', 'value');
  const value = await cluster.get('key');
})();
```

## `createCluster` configuration

> See the [client configuration](./client-configuration.md) page for the `rootNodes` and `defaults` configuration schemas.

| Property               | Default | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|------------------------|---------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| rootNodes              |         | An array of root nodes that are part of the cluster, which will be used to get the cluster topology. Each element in the array is a client configuration object. There is no need to specify every node in the cluster, 3 should be enough to reliably connect and obtain the cluster configuration from the server |
| defaults               |         | The default configuration values for every client in the cluster.  Use this for example when specifying an ACL user to connect with                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| useReplicas            | `false` | When `true`, distribute load by executing readonly commands (such as `GET`, `GEOSEARCH`, etc.) across all cluster nodes. When `false`, only use master nodes                                                                                                                                                        |
| maxCommandRedirections | `16`    | The maximum number of times a command will be redirected due to `MOVED` or `ASK` errors                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| nodeAddressMap         |         | Object defining the [node address mapping](#node-address-map)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| modules                |         | Object defining which [Redis Modules](../README.md#modules) to include                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| scripts                |         | Object defining Lua Scripts to use with this client (see [Lua Scripts](../README.md#lua-scripts))                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

## Node Address Map

Your cluster might be configured to work within an internal network that your local environment doesn't have access to. For example, your development machine could only have access to external addresses, but the cluster returns its internal addresses. In this scenario, it's useful to provide a map from those internal addresses to the external ones.

The configuration for this is a simple mapping. Just provide a `nodeAddressMap` property mapping the internal addresses and ports to the external addresses and ports. Then, any address provided to `rootNodes` or returned from the cluster will be mapped accordingly:

```javascript
createCluster({
  rootNodes: [{
    url: '10.0.0.1:30001'
  }, {
    url: '10.0.0.2:30002'
  }],
  nodeAddressMap: {
    '10.0.0.1:30001': 'external-host-1.io:30001',
    '10.0.0.2:30002': 'external-host-2.io:30002'
  }
});
```

> This is a common problem when using ElastiCache. See [Accessing ElastiCache from outside AWS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonElastiCache/latest/red-ug/accessing-elasticache.html) for more information on that.

## Command Routing

### Commands that operate on Redis Keys

Commands such as `GET`, `SET`, etc. will be routed by the first key, for instance `MGET 1 2 3` will be routed by the key `1`.

### [Server Commands](https://redis.io/commands#server)

Admin commands such as `MEMORY STATS`, `FLUSHALL`, etc. are not attached to the cluster, and should be executed on a specific node using `.getSlot()` or `.getAllMasters()`.

### "Forwarded Commands"

Some commands (e.g. `PUBLISH`) are forwarded to other cluster nodes by the Redis server. The client will send these commands to a random node in order to spread the load across the cluster.
